CASSANDRA-17356: February 2022 blog post for "Apache Cassandra Changelog #12" (#98)
apache/cassandra-website: site-content/source/modules/ROOT/pages/blog/Apache-Cassandra-Changelog-12-February-2022.adoc

= Apache Cassandra Changelog #12
:page-layout: single-post
:page-role: blog-post
:page-post-date: February 10, 2022
:page-post-author: The Apache Cassandra Community
:description: The Apache Cassandra Community
:keywords: 

image::blog/changelog_header.jpg[Apache Cassandra Changelog]
Our monthly roundup of key activities and knowledge to keep the community informed.

= Release Notes

=== Release

> Available since 7th September, the latest release of Apache Cassandra is  https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/cassandra/4.0.1/[4.0.1^], (https://downloads.apache.org/cassandra/4.0.1/apache-cassandra-4.0.1-bin.tar.gz.asc[pgp^],  https://downloads.apache.org/cassandra/4.0.1/apache-cassandra-4.0.1-bin.tar.gz.sha256[sha256^], and https://archive.apache.org/dist/cassandra/4.0.1/apache-cassandra-4.0.1-bin.tar.gz.sha512[sha512^]). This was a rapid release to fix a https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CASSANDRA-16877[critical bug^] in Gossip on large clusters. Please read the https://gitbox.apache.org/repos/asf?p=cassandra.git;a=blob_plain;f=CHANGES.txt;hb=refs/tags/cassandra-4.0.1[release notes^] and let us know if you encounter any problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Available since 7th September, the latest release of Apache Cassandra is  https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/cassandra/4.0.1/[4.0.1^], (https://downloads.apache.org/cassandra/4.0.1/apache-cassandra-4.0.1-bin.tar.gz.asc[pgp^],  https://downloads.apache.org/cassandra/4.0.1/apache-cassandra-4.0.1-bin.tar.gz.sha256[sha256^], and https://archive.apache.org/dist/cassandra/4.0.1/apache-cassandra-4.0.1-bin.tar.gz.sha512[sha512^]). This was a rapid release to fix a https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CASSANDRA-16877[critical bug^] in Gossip on large clusters. Please read the https://github.com/apache/cassandra/blob/cassandra-4.0.1/CHANGES.txt[release notes^] and let us know if you encounter any problems.
```

Note: As the docs are not yet updated, the bintray location for Debian users is replaced with the https://apache.jfrog.io/artifactory/cassandra/[ASF's JFrog Artifactory location^].

> See the https://cassandra.apache.org/download/[download section] for the latest stable and older supported versions of source and binary distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the xref:download.adoc[download section] for the latest stable and older supported versions of source and binary distributions.
```

> To stay up-to-date, we recommend joining the Cassandra  https://cassandra.apache.org/community/[mailing list].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stay up-to-date, we recommend joining the Cassandra xref:community.adoc#discussions[mailing list].
```

== Community Notes

_Updates on Cassandra Enhancement Proposals (CEPs), how to contribute, and other community activities._

> _Are you new to the project?  We have a handy https://cassandra.apache.org/_/development/index.html[‘Contributing to Cassandra’] page on how to get involved and get started. Additionally, we have established two quick labels you should take a look at if you are new to the project. One is for https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=496&quickFilter=2252[“Failing Tests”^] and the other corresponds to our https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=484&quickFilter=2162[“Low Hanging Fruit”^]. Feel free to self-select a ticket to work on. Any of these tickets should be of appropriate complexity for someone new to the project to tackle. Just remember to put a note on the ticket. You can also reach out on the https://the-asf.slack.com/[ASF Slack^] in the #cassandra-dev Slack channel. Use @cassandra_mentors to contact any of the 13 designated Cassandra mentors!_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Are you new to the project?  We have a handy xref:development/index.adoc[‘Contributing to Cassandra’] page on how to get involved and get started. Additionally, we have established two quick labels you should take a look at if you are new to the project. One is for https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=496&quickFilter=2252[“Failing Tests”^] and the other corresponds to our https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?rapidView=484&quickFilter=2162[“Low Hanging Fruit”^]. Feel free to self-select a ticket to work on. Any of these tickets should be of appropriate complexity for someone new to the project to tackle. Just remember to put a note on the ticket. You can also reach out on the https://the-asf.slack.com/[ASF Slack^] in the #cassandra-dev Slack channel. Use @cassandra_mentors to contact any of the 13 designated Cassandra mentors!_
```

Read PMC member Josh McKenzie’s https://lists.apache.org/thread/pclo1tpqsfkc4skxhftrydos89o1t72q[latest bi-weekly update^] for ongoing discussions and the latest on ticket progress.

=== Added

A massive thank you goes to *Lorina Poland* for converting all the Cassandra documentation from reStructuredText to AsciiDoc for the new website and another heartfelt thank you to *Mick Semb Wever* for getting the ticket over the line by working over the holiday period. We also wouldn’t have the site without *Anthony Grasso’s* extensive work moving us to the https://antora.org/[Antora^] platform. Thank you all! 👏

:!figure-caption:

.Take a look at the newly updated Cassandra documentation site.
[link=https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/latest/]
image::blog/cassandra-documentation-changelog-12.png[New Cassandra documentation website]

=== Added

> Not sure what branch to target with your work? *Josh McKenzie* has put together a https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=199530302[wiki page^]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not sure what branch to target with your work? *Josh McKenzie* has put together a https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/PpfkCw[wiki page^]
```

=== Added

> We have established a Build Lead role and we are seeking more volunteers. The position is inspired by the ‘Build Baron’ role used in MongoDB, but more focused on triaging test failures and database correctness, but it may evolve into a performance regression and change point triage role in the future. Read the https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=199527692[wiki page^] for what’s involved in this rotating position and sign-up!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have established a Build Lead role and we are seeking more volunteers. The position is inspired by the ‘Build Baron’ role used in MongoDB, but more focused on triaging test failures and database correctness, but it may evolve into a performance regression and change point triage role in the future. Read the https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/DI3kCw[wiki page^] for what’s involved in this rotating position and sign-up!
```

=== Discussed

> The discussion for https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CASSANDRA/CEP-19%3A+Trie+memtable+implementation[CEP-19 Trie Memtable Implementation^] is https://lists.apache.org/thread/fdvf1wmxwnv5jod59jznbnql23nqosty[underway^]. Memtables can become a pain point for memory management and garbage collection, *Branimir Lambov* is proposing an alternative memtable implementation based on https://github.com/blambov/cassandra/blob/CASSANDRA-17240/src/java/org/apache/cassandra/db/tries/MemtableTrie.md[tries^]. Join the discussion if you have an interest in high-performance data structures!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The discussion for https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/kYuqCw[CEP-19 Trie Memtable Implementation^] is https://lists.apache.org/thread/fdvf1wmxwnv5jod59jznbnql23nqosty[underway^]. Memtables can become a pain point for memory management and garbage collection, *Branimir Lambov* is proposing an alternative memtable implementation based on https://github.com/blambov/cassandra/blob/CASSANDRA-17240/src/java/org/apache/cassandra/db/tries/MemtableTrie.md[tries^]. Join the discussion if you have an interest in high-performance data structures!
```

===  Discussed

> *Paulo Motta* has started a thread on the mailing list asking contributors to start tagging Jira tickets and submit ideas for the Google Summer of Code (GSOC). We’ll be posting more details on our program later in February, but the key thing to highlight is that GSoC will not be solely focused on students and open to anyone over 18.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Paulo Motta* has started https://lists.apache.org/thread/rht6py71z1f8cxjzpo22bhgzl3f60kdp[a thread on the mailing list^] asking contributors to start tagging Jira tickets and submit ideas for the Google Summer of Code (GSOC). We’ll be posting more details on our program later in February, but the key thing to highlight is that GSoC will not be solely focused on students and open to anyone over 18.
```

=== Discussed

As the Apache Cassandra ecosystem matures, we’re are beginning to chart a way forward for non-developer roles, such as marketing (see last year’s report on https://lists.apache.org/thread/lop4rkwsz82c8lznlhf1q7oddf7xzzpk[marketing contributions^]), website editing, and developer evangelism to become project committers.

=== Discussed

*Ekaterina Dimitrova* drove a discussion about https://lists.apache.org/thread/mnxh94lg9v94bfntq88051z3ww16q2fk[the future of UDF as it relates to recent Cassandra releases, JavaScript, and JDK17^]. The TL;DR is that we will target a pluggable hooks API for UDFs and let the ecosystem maintain and evolve externally.

=== Passed

> The wiki now includes a formalized https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CASSANDRA/Cassandra+CI+Process[guide to the Cassandra Continuous Integration process^] and covers such questions as what CI criteria are we using to gate minor and major releases?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wiki now includes a formalized https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/x/KJfkCw[guide to the Cassandra Continuous Integration process^] and covers such questions as what CI criteria are we using to gate minor and major releases?
```
